OPTEDIT Utility

The Option Editor, OPTEDIT.EXE, is a utility that allows you to change
the behavior of your CA-Clipper applications which have been linked using
ExoSpace.  In most cases, your CA-Clipper executable files will behave as
you need them.  However, if you want to change one or more behaviors of
your application, the option editor gives you this flexibility.  OPTEDIT
is run from the DOS command line.


SYNTAX

Syntax:  OPTEDIT [-option [-option...]] [filename] [@response[.opt]]

Options may appear in any order and a space should be used to separate
options.  Using the @ key designates a response file.  The default
extension for a response file is .OPT.

filename is the name of the CA-Clipper executable.  If the executable is
not in the current directory, you must specify a path name.  If you do not
specify a filename, but do specify one or more options, OPTEDIT issues an
error.

If you enter OPTEDIT on the DOS command line with no arguments, the Option
Editor lists the default values for all user-controllable options.


RESPONSE FILES

You can also use a response file to list options.  You are allowed
multiple response files as needed.  The response files will be executed in
the order in which they are specified.

Within response files, carriage returns are treated as spaces.  To put a
comment in the response files, use a semicolon or an exclamation point
before the comment and a carriage return after it.  Response files may be
nested.

A sample response file:

; Example of response files for OPTEDIT
; Initially allocate 4MB of memory
-EXTRAMIN 4096
! end of example

A sample call to OPTEDIT:

OPTEDIT myapp.exe @myopts.opt


OPTIONS

Option names can begin with either a dash (-) or a slash(/).  In the
description below, numbers are designated by nnnn.  Numeric fields may be
entered as decimals or as hexadecimal (0 through F, preceded by '0x').

Options that can be toggled by adding NO, such as -NOBANNER, are listed
under the primary name, such as -BANNER.  The NO is shown in brackets.

-ALWAYSMIGRATE (Default: AUTOMIGRATE)
This setting changes the swap type of code segments from SWAPNEVER to
SWAPALWAYS.  Using this setting, code segments will always be swapped out.

-[NO]AUTOCANCEL (Default: -AUTOCANCEL)
Turns off the CA-Clipper executable's automatic cancellation of aliases.
This option should not be used with CA-Clipper applications.  Use of this
option can cause protection faults and/or data corruption.

-[NO]AUTOGRAB (Default: -AUTOGRAB)
Whenever your CA-Clipper application allocates more memory than has already
been reserved for the program, the application also requests more memory
from the system.  If -NOAUTOGRAB is specified, this additional memory will
not be reserved.  This option can be used to simulate a machine with less
memory.

-AUTOMIGRATE (Default: -AUTOMIGRATE)
This setting is used in conjunction with CA-Clipper's Virtual Memory
Management system.  All code segments, the first time they are selected for
replacement, are written out to the swap file.  After the code segments
have been written once, they will not be copied out again.  If they are
needed again, they are copied from the swap file.  Data segments are
written to and read from the swap file every time.

-[NO]BANNER (Default: -BANNER)
Determines whether or not the CA-Clipper executable displays the DOS/16M
copyright message.  The DOS/16M license agreement requires notice of the
Tenberry Software copyright, but it does not have to be in the banner.
If the -NOBANNER option is used, then you must include the DOS/16M
copyright information in the documentation you ship with your product.

-BUFFER nnnn (Default: 4096)
Specifies, in bytes, the transfer buffer size.  All transfers use low
memory.  A read to extended memory must first be transferred into low
memory and then copied up to extended memory.  A write must be copied down
from extended memory into low memory and then the information can be
written to disk.  If you change this size to suit your application, you can
often increase program execution speed.  The maximum value for the transfer
buffer size is 32768 bytes.  To reset the buffer to the default size,
specify -BUFFER 0.

-EXTRAMIN nnnn (Default: 0)
By default, the CA-Clipper executable file calculates the amount of memory
it will need to run your program.  If you need more memory, use the
-EXTRAMIN option to allocate extra memory at the start of your program.  If
there is not enough memory available, you will receive DOS/16M error 1,
"Not enough extended memory." CA-Clipper's internal error 8002 can be
avoided by using the -EXTRAMIN parameter.  Please note that the -EXTRAMIN
option is ignored if CA-Clipper's VMM system is used.  Under Windows, the
VMM system is disabled by default and hence the -EXTRAMIN option can be
used.

-FREELOW (Default: -NOFREELOW)
This option frees as much low memory as possible when your program shells
out to DOS or attempts to run a program outside of the VMM system.  This
option can reduce program efficiency.  NOFREELOW is the default.  If your
program runs on machines that have limited extended memory, however, you
may prefer to use the FREELOW option instead of specifying a large
RESERVELOW parameter.

-GDTSIZE nnnn (Default: 65536)
This option specifies the size of the Global Descriptor Table (in bytes).
You can save space by specifying a small number, however, this will
restrict the availability of transparent segments.

-INIT00 (Default: -NOINIT)
Initializes memory to zeros when your CA-Clipper program loads.  Use this
option to find bugs related to uninitialized memory or to provide a
consistent working environment.  This option does not affect memory
allocated by compiler library functions such as malloc.

-IINITFF (Default: -NOINIT)
Fills memory with 0xFF when your CA-Clipper program loads.  Use this option
to find bugs related to uninitialized memory.  This option does not affect
memory allocated by compiler library functions such as malloc.

-MFORCEEXT (Default: -MPREFEREXT)
This option specifies the memory strategy for loading your application.
When this option is set, the application is loaded in extended memory and
will fail if there is not enough extended memory available.

-MFORCELOW (Default: -MPREFEREXT)
This option specifies the memory strategy for loading your application.
When this option is set, the application is loaded in low memory and will
fail if there is not enough low memory available.

-MPREFEREXT (Default: -MPREFEREXT)
This option specifies the memory strategy for loading your application.
When this option is set, the application will load in extended memory
unless there is not enough extended memory available.  In this case, it
will use low memory.

-MPREFERLOW (Default: -MPREFEREXT)
This option specifies the memory strategy for loading your application.
When this option is set, the application will load in low memory unless
there is not enough low memory available.  In this case, it will use
extended memory.

-NEVERMIGRATE (Default: AUTOMIGRATE)
This setting is used in conjunction with CA-Clipper's Virtual Memory
Management system.  When this option is used, the Virtual Memory Manager
never writes code segments to the swap file.

-NOINIT (Default: -NOINIT)
Turns off -INIT00 and -INITFF

-[NO]PACKAGE (Default: -NOPACKAGE)
This option does not apply and should not be used on a CA-Clipper
executable file.

-TSCOUNT nn (Default: 4)
This option determines the number of stack frames available to your
CA-Clipper program.  DOS/16M uses a transfer stack frame whenever an
interrupt occurs in one mode, but is handled in the other.  If your
application deals with a large number of asynchronous interrupts, you may
have more than 4 levels of interrupts in effect at one time.  Use this
option to increase the number of transfer stack frames.

-TSSIZE nnn (Default: Outside of DPMI, 256 bytes; under DPMI, 384 bytes)
Specifies the size, in bytes, of a transfer stack frame.  The default
transfer size leaves approximately 128 bytes available to your application.
If your application interacts with real-mode procedures that may expect
more than 128 bytes in a transfer stack frame, you can use this option to
increase the transfer stack size.

-[NO]UMB (Default: -NOUMB)
This option tells the application to move its low-memory runtime code into
an Upper Memory Block (UMB).

-VXD xxxx
This option does not apply and should not be used on a CA-Clipper
executable file.

-[NO]WINSTARTOK
This option does not apply and should not be used on a CA-Clipper
executable file.
